
A set of cells plus a topology gives us a space.  A topology is another set.  Does the Von
Neuman thing really work to give us order?  {{} {{}}} = {{{}} {}} so we must have a 'is a
null set' operator to determine which member comes first, as we strip parens.

So we take the Turing machine tape, with its nearest number topology, as a fundamental
object.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
compact space

see directory.odg

A directory is a uniformally structured blocked tree structure for managing an address
space. Because of its uniform structure at each node we can make use of a hardware address
decoder to complete the tree. This address decoder is a physical object that is called out
from the nodes of the tree.  The only related state is the input address; hence the same
hardware can be resused in computation at each level of the tree.  The leaves of the
tree are locations in memory.  The last hardware decode step is said to address into a
'page' of memory.

The directory grows in levels as required to span the address space.  Hence short
addresses enter the tree at a different root than longer ones do. For example, if pages
are 16 bytes (two 64 bit words), then each address is broken into 4 bit fields.  Should an
address be 4 bits or less, it addresses directly into the first page.  The directory is
not used.  An address of more than 4 bits, but less than 8 bits uses the first level of
the directory only. Etc. This is shown as a diagram in directory.odg

A directory converts an address into a compact space into a cell reference.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
sparse space

But What if our space is large and sparse.  I.e. there are not so many cells used in this
space, but each cell address tends to be be quite long.  Say for example the bits in
strings form the addresses, and these strings are words or short phrases coming from a
human language.  In such a case we won't have many of these strings, so each takes on a
special significance.  We give strings found in such situations the name 'symbol'.

We really don't care what the strings are used to represent a symbols.  Whether something
is called a 'shoe', 'chaussure', 'zapato', or '靴' - it represents the same thing.  Rather
it is the topology, i.e. the connectedness between the cells that these symbols address
that we care about.  Such a topology is known as a 'concept space' or a 'semantic
network'.  I.e. there are isomorphisms between concept spaces that use different strings.

Because the strings that are used do not matter, we can use addresses from a compact
space.  This has great advantages, because the compact addresses can be compared and
decoded in hardware.  It also means that it is practical to place the cells on a 
tape.

As a semantic network topology is more involved than the two neighbor topology of our tape
machine tape, we will probably need to place in the cells of this space a machine that
holds the addresses for the connected cells. We then use the nearest neighbor topology to
help us maintain the network, though it will have no semmantic in the network itself.

We are then left with the problem of converting symbol strings to the symbol addresses.  In
the parlence of parsing this is known as tokenizing.

Allocation will help with this. Every time we see a new symbol that we haven't seen
before, we allocate the next available address to it.  Thus the symbol strings which
addressed into a sparse space become addresses into a compact space.

But how do we know a string is new?  And when a string is not new, how do we know
which address to apply to it?

Candidate approaches. 

1. Hash tables

One is to run the string into a CRC checker, or similar mathematical function, to map
addresses in the sparse 'string' space where addresses are character strings, to addresses
in a more compact 'hash' space where addresses are CRC numbers.

Evalluating a hash function has the nice quality that not many non-local memory fetches
are required, so the algorith is likely to fit in the cache and to run at processor
speed. However it doesn't really scale, we have to have an idea of the hash space ahead of
time.  Also a mapping will not be one to one.  Say n is the number of symbols we have, and
each of the n symbols has a unique string.  Then M is the number of locations in the hash
space.  If M < n, then some strings will have to map to the same hash value.  Even when M
>= n, there will be a chance that the hash function sends two strings to the same hash
value.  This chance will be quite high when M = n, and then taper down fairly quickly.

Consequently just applying a hashing function is not sufficient for implementing the
isomophism map between strings and addresses in a compact space.  Something more is
required.  This something more is typically a search through hash buckets, while running a
stirng compare on pairs.  The bucket search is a minature version of our original problem,
and as a tree search is log time, the fact that the bucket is smaller than the original
search doesn't help unless it is very small.

2. lookup tree

A second candidate approach is to use a tree, for example a red/black tree.  We then
take the symbol string character by characther and traverse the tree.  The leaves of
our tree are the compact addresses. This approach has predictable performance, though it
will require proportion to a log number of memory fetches.  Typically we notice that
prefixes and such cause us to waste the first few compares.  Would would like to scramble
the string first to prevent this, but then we are back to using a hash function.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
fuzzy space

1. distance to dictionary entries

You know, though, most dictionaries are relatively small.  Perhaps it makes more sense to
go through every entry in the dictionary and to provide a vector of syntactical distance
scores. Each component in the vector would be the distance against a different metric. 

Or perhaps do this just for misses.

Possible Metrics:
  1. contiguous letters in common, prefix, contained, suffix, going either direction,
     or equal.

For each metric we keep a tm of scores, placing the lowest for each metric first ..
which implies a sort to address into the tm.  Perhaps only keep the top 3.

we would favor having an upfront parsing step where all the symbol issues are worked
out, rather than incremental work at run time.

Keep a distance metric, sum of squares of distances for all metrics.

2. syntax spaces.  

These are similar to concept spacers, but based on the string syntax.  There would be a
map for each different metric.  Then we grab each syntax space and do gradient descent to
find our new string's score.  There can be some semantic relationship between words with
syntactical relationships, common prefixes etc.  .. we have to find a start node for
each map, that looks a bit like the distance to dictionary entries problem.

---- so, say, we have a string symbol.  We provide an alternative string based on phonetic
guesses for the spelling.  We can check our phonetic guesser and keeps stats for
occurances of particular proununciation against spelling when the dictionary entry is
found.






