For an array we maintain a state variable, which when feed to a fetch function will locate
a cell or a neighor.  This state variable we call the 'address'. An address can be used to
fetch a cell from a container, and then to read from that cell, though often these two
steps are fused, perhaps even in hardware.  When we want to read a neighbor cell, we first
calculate its address, then use that address in to fetch and read.  Consequently cells in an
array are not required to contain introspective information that locates their
neighbors. This is good as it makes the array more compact.

If we create a structure that contains both the address and a reference to the container,
then call it a cell,  or perhaps an abstract cell,  we can implement the cell interface
over it.


-----

The array tape is implemented in blocks.  Say 64 element blocks.

Array has a native deallocate command, d., and an allocate command, e◨a. 

Array has a slot for holding the smallest index to a deallocated element.  Each deallocated
element holds the index(reference?) of the next smallest deallocated element index.

If nothing has been deallocated from the array, then allocation-new will extend the array.

Upon allocation-new we hand back the smallest index.  Hence the array tends to be compact,
tending towards the smaller indexes.

Array has a slot for holding the largest index.  Should the largest index element
be deallocated, then the array contracts.  Should it contract past the block size limit
then the block will be deallocated from its owner.

dealloc of 1 element suffices as instances are held by reference.  It is interesting
to contemplate a version where deallocated can be done in blocks, though then the
blocks size paraemeter must be held somewhere.

An index into the array is a head, so the user can only have one by creating
a tape machine over the array.  Stepping, i.e. incrementing, the index is cognizant
of deallocated elements, and will skip over them.

Each block keeps a count of deallocated elements, when this count reaches the size of the
block, the block is released.  The counts are also used to speed up address calculation.

A tape machine may be created over the array to step through allocated elements,
deallocated elements, or all elements.

It is illegal for the programmer to access and a deallocated element.  However, the
entanglement mechanism makes this difficult for a programmer to do.  An index is a
tape head, so the entanglement mechanism will provide a collision error should the
programmer make an active index stale.

For 64 element blocks, the bottom six bits of an index can be incremented directly, while
also taking care to skip over deallocated blocks.  The remaining bits go through a
translation table to find their blocks.  As one possible implementation for this table is
another array tape, where its elements are references to blocks plus some additional
information.  When a block is is deallocated at the lower level, its entry is deallocated
on the higher level array tape.  For arrays of greater than 6+6 = 12 ==> 2048 elements we
open a third level, etc.  Pointers to the levels are stacks, perhaps made of blocks in
a linked list.

The additional information for the block pointer can hold mark if the block is deallocated,
or perhaps even swapped out, read only, or gosh, perhaps access permissions.

Note also my implementation of table for accomodating variable word sizes, that is in the
cpp source tree.

----

  An array index is broken into fields, currently each of 4 bits.

       ..., i7 i6 i5 i4, i3 i2 i1 i0

  The bottom 4 bits look up the element in the block.  The remaining bits
  lookup the block in the directory.

  directory bits:

       ..., i11 i10 i9 i8, i7 i6 i5 i4

   Note the directory is implemented with an array, so the bottom 4 bits
   lookup the block, while the remaining bits are sent to the higher level
   directory.

   An address with four or fewer bits addresses into block zero:

       ..., 0 0 0 0, i3 i2 i1 i0

   An address with 8 or fewer bits has one level of directory lookup:

       ..., 0 0 0 0, 

----

   Say we store the addresses most significant digit first:

    ..  0 0 0 0 i7 i6 i5 i4 i3 i2 i1 i0

    i3 i2 i1 i0  are used to look into the first level of the directory

    i7 i6 i5 i4  are used to look into the block indicated by the directory

    1. shift off 4 bits -> a-rest | a-first
    2.1 if a-rest is zero, then a-first is an address into the block
    2.2 if a-rest is non-zero,
           
       

    





