
  tape machine primitive functions (access lang statments)

      r read cell under the head
      w write cell under the head
   
      s step 
      a allocate/add/append a new cell, place it just to the right of head cell, requires fill
      d deallocate/drop/delete cell - optional spill (i.e. realloc), affects cell to the right of the head

      m move data, no allocation or deallocation of cells, requires fill

      f fork, returns a machine with the same tape, but an independent head.  When the
        tape is a code stream, this is similar to Unix fork.

syntax of derived functions:

---

  [tape-side] command [modifier] [& contract]*

  tape-side: -

  command:  r | w | s | a | d | m | f

  modifier: ◧ ◨ n 

  when tape-side is not specified, it is right

modifier
    ◧  operate on leftmost
    ◨  operate on rightost
    n  repeats n times, n provided through an argument

   when operate on leftmost or rightmost is not specified, operates on the cell
   the head is on

contracts:
    h◧    head is at leftmost
    h◨    head is at rightmost
    hp    head is parked
    h¬p   head is not parked

examples:
   -s     ; step left
   s*     ; cue rightmost
   -s*    ; cue leftmost
   sch¬p  ; step with a contract that the head is not parked
   a◧     ; creates a new leftmost cell
   a◨     ; append to rightmost
   sn     ; step n times

to derive a longer command, combine:
   as    ;  append then step
   -a-s  ; append to the left, step to the left
   





=== the rest of this file should probably be ignored.  The above will go into
the access lange chapter in the manual


    tape-side command tape-end-specifier head-contract quantification 


𝝐 = not present
tape-side:  [-𝝐]    ;minus for lhs, or not present for rhs
command: [rwsadm]   ;pick one letter
head-contract: [h◧ h◨ h¬p 𝝐]     ;head on leftmost, head on rightmost, head not parked or no contract
tape-end-specifier:  [◧ ◨ 𝝐] ; operates on, ◧ leftmost, ◨ rightmost, 𝝐 on head
quantification: [n*𝝐]  ; count, repeat to end, or do once

if there is to be a step after the command runs, add an s to the end of
the command.

as  append and step

-a-s  append to the left, step to the left




----

gather, g, accepts a cell and puts it on to the tape just to the right of the head cell.
Somewhat similar to alloc, a, but the initialization data is a cell rather than
an object.

allocation on an fixed array requires moving data out of the way, but the
data move causes data to be knocked off the end.  The function move,m, behaves
this way.  In contrast the function alloc, a, does not spill data, rather
the container must become more capacious.  Both m and a require fill data
be provided for inializing the newly allocated or newly vacated cells.

copy copies objects, there is no allocation or deallocation.  If both
tape machines are on the same tape, then there can be overlaps, currently
this is not contemplated, it is a todo item.



---
modification of AH changes state
modifications of tape changes structure

  In deterministic computing a state variable has a single value at any given
  step during computation.  This is the definition of deterministic computing,
  and the implications of determinism, and its complement, non-determinism, have
  been well studied.

  In programming with the use of arrays, an index often hold state for the program.  We
  destructively modify indexes typically without concern of creating conflicts with the
  various users of an index.  This stands in contrast to the destructive modification of
  data, for example a list, where another user of a destructively modifed list will
  suddenly have its copy changed - thus causing the list to become a vehicle for
  communication, but one without the required protocol overhead to make such communication
  work well.

  A tape machine is an abstraction of an index for arbitrary containers rather than
  just for arrays.  It is theoretically related to Turing machines, and in implementation
  related to iterators. Hence, we destructively modify our tape machines in order
  to represent advancing state, just as is done with loop indexes when scanning arrays.

  tape machine

  A tape is a linear sequence of cells, where each cell may contain a data object.  In this
  model such an object may another tape.  Of course my tape is commonly referred to as a
  sequence in the modern LISP world.  One example sequence is a singly linked list.

  A tape machine has a read write head which at any given time is placed over exactly one
  cell of the tape. I adopt the convention that the tape is placed horizontally, and then
  speak of stepping the head once cell at a time to the right or to the left. Also, the
  head may be moved into objects when the objects happen to be tapes.

  Hence, a tape machine tri-partitions a tape into left hand side, cell under the 
  head, and right hand side.  The far left cell is called the leftmost cell.  The
  far right hand cell is the rightmost cell.  If a tape does not have a rightmost
  cell it is conventionally implemented as a stream.

  Various tape specializations may constrain head movement.  For exmaple on a tape
  implemented from a singly linked list, the head may only be moved right, or into an
  object.

  An object may be written to a cell or read back from one. 

  I provide a number of derived useful functions for moving the tape head, and for
  dealing with multiple tapes, as listed below.  The names are kept short to support a
  simple composition language.  See my paper "Towards a Better Understanding of CAR and
  CDR".  See tape-machine-lang, for the composition langauge implementation.

  The return value of the head motion operations is success (t) or failure (∅).

  A two dimensional array is a sequence of objects, where each object is a sequence of fixed
  length.  I.e. a sequence of rows, or a sequence of columns.  This can be extended.  In
  general that an n-dimensional array is an n level tree with constraints on the sequence
  lengths. Hence, this iterator method may also be used on n dimensional arrays.

  Some containers used as sequences (tapes) do not support growing or cutting out cells.
  (Physical memory is notorious for making this operation very slow ;-) However moving
  data around is an analogous operation, and we provide functions for that.

  Two tape machines working on the same tape form an interval.  We say that the 
  interval has a left and a right tape machine.

