
Simultaneous operation on the Base Machine

  A programmer should not directly operate on the base machine of a transform.
  
  If a programmer, say, moved the head on the base machine though the status says the head
  is parked. That would change the definition of what is the rightneighbor of the head.

  Then suppose that the user has an entangled copy of the base machine?  Then the user
  can add cells to an empty machine, but the status would still be empty.

  Perhaps init should make an entangled copy, then the user would never even see
  the base machine, so he/she would not be able to operate on it.  However, how
  do we garbage collect on the entangled machine?  It would be cool if mk had
  its own scoped environment ...  with-machine or some such.  With such a feature
  we would be able to garbage collect the entangled machine.

  which brings up an issue, need to go back to self-disentangle and define a
  function class for it.  Need our own version of self-disentangle that sets
  the abandoned state.

Parked 

  For an empty machine the status machine will act like the head is parked, and
  requests for a right neighbor will meet with right of bound-right continuation.
  Appending to an empty machine will create a new bound-left cell (and in the current
  implementation, create a new machine as well).

  When the status is 'parked, the status machine will claim the head is not on any
  cell. Consequently it has no location.  However, the machine will identify a right
  neighbor as the cell the head is actually on in the base machine.

  Though the right neighbor of a parked head is the cell the head is on the base machine,
  a parked head is not an alias for a head on the cell of the left neighbor, because there
  is no entanglment, it does not matter if the left neighbor cell is deleted.  Rather it
  is a sort of region locator. Should we have a general concept of region locator?

  However, we run into a problem with the operation #'a if the right neighbor to a parked
  head is anything except the bound-left cell.  This is because to perform the append of a
  new cell relative to a parked head for a singly linked list we would need to modify the
  left neighbor cell to account for it having a new right neighbor, but having a parked
  head does not give us a reference to it. If we made the parked head an actual alias
  for the left neighbor cell, then it would have to be entanglement accounted, then there
  would be an anomoly when parking from the bound-left cell, as then the parked head can
  not be an alias for a left neighbor.

  If we adopt the convention that right neighbor for a parked head, is the cell the head
  is actually on in the base machine, then we are requiring that there is a 'where I came
  from' state associated with a parked head.

  When we adopt the convention that the right neighbor of the parked head is always the
  bound-left cell, then we can not allow operations on the base machine, or the head might
  be moved away form the bound-left cell.  If we tried to always cue-bound-left before
  unparking a head, then we are communicating with the code using the base machine, but we
  have not developed a framework for such communication.

  If we adopt the convention that the parked head's right neighbor is always the bound-left
  cell on the base machine, and that the status machine owns the base machine.  A
  programmer can make an entangled copy, but can not use the base base machine.  Then the
  status machine has a single machine interface, with a single head state. I will go with
  this.

  Perhaps the easiest way to enforce this convention would be for init to create an
  entangled copy for the status machine.  However, if we did this we would have to
  explicily call self-disentangle before the status machine goes out of scope.  It appears
  we need a scoped form of mk.  However, the problem with scoped creation forms is
  that we can not write subroutines that create results as machines and then pass
  them back to the caller. The status machine fixes this problem by allowing us to
  pass empty machines into subroutines that create results.  Hence, we will want a
  scoped make structure for status machines.

  ..

  Is this conceptually clean? Wouldn't it be nice to have a general method of locating
  regions other than using another machine?  And is the tape not just the largest region,
  so why would a parked head only be able to locate the largest region?  Can a status
  machine not instead be a 'region location' machine? .. I will leave the problem of
  creating a region locaiton machine to another date..

  Suppose we want the right neighbor from parked to be a different cell.  We can then
  delete all cells up to that other cell, then parked will behave as such. Perhaps a
  better operation would be 'split', which returns the lefthand side, and the righthand
  side as two different machines.  But note, in our definition for lefthand and righthand
  side, the cell the head is on goes with the lefthand side. Because this behavior
  can be emulated, would it not make sense to just provide it directly?

  Suppose we are trying to locate a region, such as our delete up to region would have to
  do. Currently, we don't have a good way of stopping iteration against a right neighbor
  comparison.  s≠ stops when two machines are on the same head.  heads-one-same-cell also
  is for same cells. In a former version of the code we had location comparison operators,
  so that would do it. We will end up with two types of location operators, one that
  are decl-only and left to the implementation, and another built on addresses.

  Instead of forcing a status machine to be a region locating machine, perhaps it would
  make sense to separately have such a machine. Comparison of head-on-same-cell and
  such would then work correctly for finding a region. .. but #'a would still not
  work.

  One of the reasons that structure modifying operations are so complicated is that they
  modify the topology, the connectedness, of the structure.  Perhaps structure can exist
  over a substructure that does not change.  Writing cells on this substructure would then
  modify the super structure.  Hmmm well .. for another day ..


esr

  esr is a tape-machine primitive. 

  esr on an parked machine returns the instance of the cell the head is on in the base
  machine.

   
